I've always been jealous of Winston Churchill.
There's a quote, by the way.
The history of innovation
is the bed, the bus and the bathtub.
It's always these moments
when we're not really thinking about work
or we're kind of doing something else
that good ideas come to us.
Winston Churchill,
He's sitting in the bathtub,
and he's dictating a national address
to his assistant who's in the other room.
She's saying, "distinguished ladies and gentlemen"
"Don't call them distinguished"
"They're not"
This is the Gary Oldman version.
"They're not distinguished."
You know, "Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have gathered together."
"Get to the point!"
and I'm watching this going
I would give anything to have an assistant
who understood my context and my voice and
my intent well enough that I could sit in
the bath and they could write my speech.
Now, the poorest villager in Palo Alto
can have what only Winston Churchill
used to have,
which is an assistant that has my context
and my voice and my intent available to me
so that when I'm in the bathtub,
I can be dictating my address.
That is absolutely
technically possible today.
Exploring Human Agency in the age of AI
Exploring Human Agency in the age of AI : Uncoded
Ep.1 How to Become a Better Collaborator with AI
I'm Jeremy Utley,
I'm an adjunct professor of creativity
and AI at Stanford University.
I've been teaching at Stanford
for the last 15 years
at the intersection of creativity,
innovation, entrepreneurship, and now
increasingly, artificial intelligence.
The topic that I'm most focused on right
now is helping non-technical professionals
learn to be good collaborators to or with generative AI.
And then two years ago,
myself and my partner at the time,
Perry Klebahn, wrote a book called
Idea Flow, which was the canonical book
on idea generation and prototyping.
So super proud of that.
It was the culmination of a dozen years
of leading executive programs
and the leadership program and the
entrepreneurship program at Stanford.
And one month after our book came out,
ChatGPT came out.
To me, the fact that I wrote the canonical book
on Idea generation just prior to AI
is like writing the best book on retail
just before the internet.
AI is a tool to dramatically augment
and amplify our creativity.
And the truth is, I didn't know
a lot about it when the book came out.
So one month after my book came out,
instead of going on a world book tour,
I strapped myself back into the front row
as a student and said,
I need to be learning about
this transformative new technology.
So I started taking classes.
I started conducting research.
I started working with and studying teams
inside of organizations, using the tool
to understand the simple question,
how does generative AI impact
the individual and the team and the
organization's ability to solve problems?
Chapter1. Don't Ask AI, Let It Ask You
You can give an AI a prompt, for example.
How should I answer this question?
Or you could give an AI
the question
I want to ask how I should answer this question.
What's the best way of framing
that question to an AI?
So you see what I did there?
I asked AI for how to ask I my question,
but you can use AI to use AI, which is
you couldn't use Excel to use Excel.
PowerPoint can't teach you how to use PowerPoint.
Email can't teach you how to use email.
AI strangely can teach you
how to use itself if you think to ask.
Go to your language model of choice
and just say the following.
Hey, you're an AI expert.
I would love your help and a consultation
with you to help me figure out
where I can best leverage AI in my life.
As an AI expert, would you please ask
me questions one question at a time,
until you have enough context about my
workflows and responsibilities and KPIs
and and objectives that you could
make two obvious recommendations
and two non-obvious recommendations
for how AI could leverage AI in my work.
you will have one of the most enlightening
and illuminating conversations you've ever had,
and it's all because of AI's ability to evaluate its own work.
What I've seen is non-technical employees
are able to do incredible things.
Here's one example.
The National Park Service called me
and asked me if I would
conduct a training program
for a bunch of backcountry rangers,
so they gathered a group of about 60
backcountry rangers and facilities managers
into a training session,
and I spent a couple of hours over zoom
teaching folks the basics of collaborating with AI.
One of the people in that
session was a gentleman named Adam Rymer,
who works at Glen Canyon National Park.
And one of the things I say is you
should focus on parts of your work that you dread.
Parts of your work that you don't enjoy.
"Ah, I have to do this again."
And Adam said, if I have to replace
the carpet tiles in the lodge.
I have to fill out all this paperwork.
And so to replace a carpet tile will
sometimes take 2 or 3 days of paperwork.
Then he thought,
could AI help me write that paperwork?
And in 45 minutes,
he built a tool with natural language
that saves him two days of work.
Every day he makes a statement of work
and then listen to this.
Someone got access to that tool
and shared it across the other parks.
There's about 430 parks in the service.
The National Park Service is estimating
that the tool that Adam built in 45 minutes
is going to save the service 7000 days of human labor this year.
That's the kind of impact that normal
professionals can have, even without
any technical ability, if only they're given
very basic foundational training.
Chapter2. Do not Use AI, Treat It as a Teammate
People are wanting to learn AI and how it
can be transformative for their business,
but they don't have the basic language.
And so while lots of organizations
are asking me how can we work with AI
to transform our business?
Where I have to start with them is
how do you work with AI?
The research I'm familiar with suggests
that while on the one hand,
AI makes people 25% faster
and 12% more work and 40% better quality,
it's also true that less than 10%
of working professionals
are deriving meaningful productivity gains
from collaboration with AI.
To me, there's this enormous gap.
I call it the realization gap.
We conducted studies both
in Europe and in the United States.
And what we found is, surprisingly, AI
didn't help most people be more creative.
In fact, in many cases, the people that we
studied, AI made them less creative.
And as we started digging
into the research,
we were surprised and looked at the data.
We were confused because you
think AI should make people
more creative, not less.
And we studied the underperformers
and then we studied the Outperformers.
And what we found is the Outperformers
had a fundamentally different orientation
towards AI than the underperformers did,
whereas the underperformers
treated AI like a tool.
The outperformers
treated AI like a teammate,
and shifting your orientation
from tool to teammate changes everything
about the kinds of outcomes that you can achieve
working with generative AI.
A simple example is what do you do
when it gives you mediocre results?
If it's a tool, you get a mediocre result
and then maybe you improve it.
Or maybe you say,
it's no good at doing that.
If it's a teammate
who's giving you a mediocre result,
think about the last teammate who gave you
work product that wasn't sufficient.
You gave them feedback.
You gave them coaching, you gave them
mentorship, you helped them improve it.
And so what we found is that people
who treat AI like a teammate, coach it
and give it feedback and importantly,
get it to ask them questions.
The fundamental orientation
a lot of people take towards AI
is I'm the question asker.
AI is the answer giver.
But if you think about AI like a teammate,
you say, hey, what are ten questions
I should ask about this?
Or what do you need to know from me
in order to get the best response?
So things, for example,
like you have a difficult conversation
coming up with a coworker.
Did you know you could leverage
a large language model
to roleplay that conversation?
You can get an AI to interview you
about your conversation partner,
and then construct a psychological profile
of your conversation partner,
and then play the role of your
conversation partner in a roleplay,
and then give you feedback from the
perspective of your conversation partner
on how you approach the conversation.
That's something you can do today,
and there are many things like that.
I call them drills,
but there are many things like that
where if someone will just shift
their consideration set of what
are the things I can do with AI.
They end up discovering applications
that I've never even dreamed of.
I've been doing this stuff for two years,
and my students are regularly
coming to me with use cases I've never
imagined that landed them in a destination
I could have never predicted,
and they could never have predicted.
For me, I never thought about myself
as a creative individual.
Now, I fully and fundamentally believe
every single human being
has innate creative capacity.
Every single one of us.
What the D.school has helped me do
is unlock others.
Everyone has
this latent creative capacity.
Once I was teaching a class
with a hip hop artist named Lecrae.
He's a multi-time Grammy Award winning
artist, and he and I are teaching a class
to graduate students at Stanford,
and we're giving them the assignment.
You've got to go get
inspiration in the world.
And what I can see is it's like looking
at myself in the mirror ten years ago,
because all
of the business school students
in the class are going, "inspiration?"
And I just felt Lecrae is clearly
the The creative legend in the room.
I said, Lecrae,
what do you think about inspiration?
And of course, as only a hip hop
artist could do, he dropped a bar.
He said, inspiration is a discipline.
And I realized in that moment,
for these students,
it's not even on their radar as a tool,
let alone a routine part of their life.
But the most wildly creative individuals
I know are disciplined about cultivating
the inputs to their thinking,
because they know it affects
the outputs of their thinking.
And so, even in regards to AI,
I push people.
What is the inspiration
you're bringing to the model?
Everybody has the same access
to the same ChatGPT.
How do I get a different output
than you do?
It's because of what I bring to the model.
And what do I bring to the model?
Certainly I bring technique,
but I also bring my experience.
I bring my perspective.
I bring all the inspiration
I've gleaned from the world.
That's what gets a user
a differential output from a model.
Chapter3. How to Go Beyond ‘Good Enough’ Ideas
A seventh grader in Ohio
who I don't even know what her name is,
but her teacher asked, what is creativity?
And she put a post-it note up on the board that says,
Creativity is doing more
than the first thing you think of.
And that's my favorite definition,
because it speaks to a profound
cognitive bias that we hold.
It's been called functional fixedness.
It's been called the Einstellung effect.
But the basic premise is humans tend
to fixate on an early solution
and be satisfied.
Herbert Simon called it satisficing,
but it's the idea that if we get
to good enough, it's enough.
And that's why I love
that seventh graders definition.
Creativity is doing more
than the first thing you think of.
It's pushing past. Good enough.
Is the definition of creativity
changing in the age of AI?
I don't think so.
The reality is, with AI, it's now easier
than ever to get good enough.
If your goal is world class,
if your goal is exceptional, then what you
want to be prompting for is actually
volume and variation, and that takes time.
It takes time to not only read through it,
but to sort it and to process it.
But fundamentally, the definition
of creativity doesn't change in the age of AI.
It's just that the human's ability
or inability to arrive at a creative state
is affected not only by the technology,
but also by their stated or unstated
objectives in collaborating with it.
Creators don't need to be afraid of AI.
Creators need to dive in.
They need to lean in.
Creators are about to be unleashed in
a way they've never been unleashed before.
The only correct answer
to the question how do you use AI?
Is I don't.
I don't use AI. I work with it.
When you start working with AI,
it will change everything.